---
layout: "../../layouts/BlogPost.astro" #Constant
title: "Tech I'm taking with me in 2023"
cardDescription: "Technology I'm betting on in 2023 that will last the test of time, and my 2022 recap."
description: "Explore the journey of a beginner programmer as they reflect on their first year in the industry, share their goals for 2023 and delve into the latest technologies, languages and services. Get inspired and join the journey as the author strives for growth and success in the field."
pubDate: "Jan 01, 2023"
heroImage: "/teaching.jpeg"
---


2022 was the year of firsts in my programming journey. First project completed, first github commit, first interview, first job. It was also a first look into many new languages, services, and technologies. In 2022 I became acquainted, enemies, strangers, reacquainted, and finally friends with a little guy called Javascript and, while we still fight sometimes, I have come to understand and make use of him. I’ve had similar experiences with most new technologies I try out, but I'm always willing to put time into learning things that will last and make me a stronger developer. Going into 2023, I want to explore, try out, and compare new methods and technologies to further refine my skill set.


### Svelte / SvelteKit
Saving my best for first, I’m starting off with a frontend framework that I could really not be happier with. From a beginners standpoint, Svelte is the framework above all frameworks. The simplicity and clarity the code structure provides is something that compelled me to overlook all of my battle tested options, and start out with a growing hatchling. Svelte is one of the only technologies I have worked with on this list but, with the recent release of SvelteKit 1.0, I’m excited to build out a full scale application and write a full in depth blog post as I uncover more of its quirks. 

### Tailwind
Tailwind is the CSS Framework I get shunned for not already using, but hear my defense. While I agree that I should want better for myself, my trusty friend bootstrap has not yet let me down egregiously. I have my quarrels with bootstrap, but for a beginner it was a good starting point, and allowed me to make a responsive website without in-depth frontend knowledge. With all of that said, in 2023 I’m letting go of the lesser, and am very excited to begin learning Tailwind to save myself from hearing that my website looks “Bootstrappy”.

### AI (ChatGPT)
While I don’t plan to go super in depth with actually integrating AI into my own projects, I do have to buy into the hype a little bit. Even at the tail end of 2022, I have been using OpenAI’s ChatGPT to my own benefit. It has helped me identify and solve bugs in my code, show me different ways of implementing a solution, and most importantly saved me lots of time reading StackOverflow answers. In 2023, AI will be something I stay up to date with and use day to day to up my productivity.

### Fonoster / Twilio
In 2022, creating good habits for myself has been a prime focus of mine. In 2023, I hope to push those habits further and keep myself more accountable. I have used twilio for small projects before, but in the new year I want to make an app that me and my friends can use to set text messages or call reminders for ourselves to keep pushing consistency and accountability for our goals.

#### Recap
All in all, 2022 was a year, and perhaps the first, to look back at and be truly proud of. I made the most of the time and opportunity afforded to me, learned as much as I could, and reaped the rewards of my work in the same year. In 2023 I hope to find and focus my skill set on a single niche to make myself more marketable for when I graduate, and bring to life some of ideas I’ve been meaning to create.

